# User Guide and App Capabilities

The Park Place app is built in ArcGIS Experience Builder, a no- to low-code solution that promotes re-use and replication by other municipalities and community groups. Park Place is best viewed in desktop environments (i.e., on a PC or laptop).

The app is set up with three views, accessible from the top-right corner of the screen; Park Disparity, Rental Factors and Transit Index. The Park Disparity view shows access to parks and greenspaces on a five-step scale from low to high, while the Rental Factors shows its respective suitability raster on a four-step scale. The Transit Index view shows access to transit throughout the City of Waterloo, with areas accessible using pedestrian, cycling and/or transit facilities classified on a three-step scale. Layers can be turned on or off using the layer control button along the right edge of the app.

The app also features widget controllers for each view, containing Query, Filter and Add Data functionalities, located in the bottom left corner of the app. The Query widget allows the user to extract polygons for each level of disparity or access; the output layer can then be added to each map or exported for further use. The Filter widget allows the user to limit the visibility of certain features, such as only displaying certain disparity or access layers without exporting a new layer like the Query widget. Lastly, the Add Data widget allows the user to temporarily add external data sources to the app, including from online and local sources. Added layers can provide additional background for specific use cases; for example, importing the City of Waterloo's street tree inventory as a GeoJSON from the city's Open Data portal to visualise street trees in context to areas of high park disparity.

# Discussion

Our map displays large areas of park disparity in central Waterloo and the city outskirts. Though greenspaces are accessible through walking, biking, and public transit, people do not have adequate greenspace access because of the scarcity created by urbanization. Generally, residents in the city core have access to fewer usable green spaces and higher rental costs. Additionally, [rental corporations have significantly increased rents in student housing](https://www.therecord.com/news/waterloo-region/apartment-vacancies-surge-in-waterloo-region-as-foreign-students-depart-but-rents-keep-rising/article_cd494dc3-bcc1-5a52-9d5c-ce4d80884292.html) near the Waterloo and Laurier campuses, leading to higher rental disparity. On the outskirts of Waterloo, park disparity occurs because of high rental inequity and lack of accessible methods to get to greenspaces. While many green spaces exist on the city's edge, they are often only accessible by cars, not by cycling, walking, or public transit. While people could walk or cycle on the side of the road, higher speed limits in rural areas compared to the city center and lack of pedestrian infrastructure create valid safety concerns.
Furthermore, rent in this area is generally higher because people live in single-family homes or luxury apartments, which leads to a higher rental disparity score. There are both accessible parks and lower rental costs between central Waterloo and the outskirts of the city, so these areas generally have the lowest park disparity.
